# Lexicon

Lexicon is a bot based on [NLP.js](https://github.com/axa-group/nlp.js) that currently hangs in [ESOUI room on Gitter](https://matrix.to/#/#esoui_esoui:gitter.im).

## Repository

Here's a brief summary of the most important locations in the repository.

- `src/index.js` is the NLP.js bot entrypoint.
- `src/connector` is where we put different connectors, e.g. Matrix, Discord, etc.
- `src/features` is where we put what the bot can do.
- `storage` is used to store runtime data generated by the bot.
- `support` is used during development to launch Matrix and Element instances.

## Development

You'll need Node.js v20+.

You can just run the bot, providing a connector and its configuration. It'll automatically install dependencies if needed.

```sh
npm start -- --connector console
```

> 💡 The `console` connector is the easiest one to use if you're just working on bot features.

### Local Matrix

We provide support files to launch local Matrix and Element instances so you can test drive your bot. You'll need Docker v20+ and Docker Compose plugin installed. Also, make sure ports `8000` and `8008` are available.

```sh
docker compose -f support/compose.yml up
```

> ⚠️ If it fails with a "Permission denied" error, stop the containers and run `docker compose -f support/compose.yml run --rm synapse generate`. It'll fix up the `/data` directory ownership, then you can start the containers again.

Head over to <http://localhost:8000>, sign-up and use the credentials with the bot:

```sh
npm start -- -c matrix -h http://matrix.local.crz.li -u bot -p thisisnotsecure -x
```

> ℹ️ We use the hostname `matrix.local.crz.li` because it resolves to `127.0.0.1`, and it's also the hostname of the container.

## Deployment

You'll need Docker v20+ and Docker Compose plugin installed. Clone the repository, then copy `example.env` to `.env` and edit it appropriately. Finally, launch the bot service in background.

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

## Legal

The MIT License © 2016 Arthur Corenzan and collaborators.
